The HSC is the highest education offered by schools in NSW. It is a certificate of achievements of students completing their final year-11 and year-12 school years. The first HSC was held in 1967 and was a pure examination based certification program until the year 1986 when school based assessments were included as part of the HSC accreditation process. Under the current HSC, 50 per cent of assessment is based on school assessment, and the other 50 per cent is based on an external end-of-year exam. In addition to a broader assessment system, the HSC is now offering students over 90 subjects to choose from.

HSC Curriculum

The NSW Board of Studies (BOSTES) offer HSC students a wide variety of courses to choose from under the following categories [1]:

Board Developed Courses – are courses designed to prepare students for tertiary education, and most of them contribute to the calculation of the Universities Admission Index (UAI) [1]. Courses are fairly diverged with English being the mandatory subject.
Board Endorsed Courses – are courses designed by schools, TAFE or universities accepted by BOSTES as HSC courses but make no contribution to the UAI calculation.
Vocational Education and Training (VET) – are subset of Board Developed Courses and Board Endorsed Courses designed to give students work related skills and often involve work placement.

HSC Assessment Process

The HSC results are a detailed package showing each student the level of knowledge and skills that they achieved in each course with 50% being school-based assessment and 50% being external exam assessment.

School-based assessment tasks measure performance in a wider range of course outcomes than can be tested in an external examination. Students are required to complete a number of assessment tasks for their courses. This may include tests, written or oral assignments, practical activities, fieldwork and projects. Schools submit an HSC assessment mark for every student in every course. BOSTES puts the marks through a process of moderation to allow a fair comparison of marks in each course across different schools [1].

The examination mark for each course shows the student's performance in the HSC examination for that course, which was set and marked by the Board of Studies NSW. The examination consists of a written paper and, for some courses, speaking and listening examinations, practical examinations, or major works that are submitted for external marking. Each student's achievement is assessed and reported against set standards of performance.

Student performance in each HSC course is measured against defined standards. HSC marks for each course are divided into bands and each band aligns with a description of a typical performance by a student within that mark range. The performance bands[1] and descriptions give meaning to the HSC mark. For a 2 unit course, Band 6 indicates the highest level of performance and the minimum standard expected is 50.

Band 6 = 90 - 100 marks
Band 5 = 80 - 89 marks
Band 4 = 70 - 79 marks
Band 3 = 60 - 69 marks
Band 2 = 50 - 59 marks
Band 1 = 0 - 49 marks

HSC Academic Goals

One of the main aims of the new HSC is to make students better qualified to win jobs or go on to higher education when they leave school. HSC’s rich curriculum and a more relaxed subject choosing criteria (only English is mandatory) provides student the opportunity to focus on one or more specific area of studies thus allows students to pursue their career path sooner than later.

The HSC is recognized by all tertiary institutions in Australia, it is not readily recognized by other foreign tertiary institutions (except for commonwealth countries such as UK, Canada, NZ)[4], and students after completing their HSC wishing to study aboard often need to sit through further examinations[5]

The IB program was founded in 1968 to serve the interests of the children of mobile diplomatic personnel who needed a stable curriculum with continuity of learning, no matter which country they resided in at the time. It was set up by a consortium and available initially to English, French and Swiss citizens. Since that time it has grown rapidly; the IB, which consists of three programs, the Primary Years Program (PYP), the Middle Years Program (MYP) and the International Diploma (DP), is taught in 141 countries world-wide. It is therefore the only truly international curriculum in the world, and is growing at around 20-25% per year both in Australia and worldwide.  In Australia, IB is growing at a moderate pace, and is available only in private schools which in term offer students the choice of IB or HSC.

As an international course of study, the IB curriculum and examinations are the same everywhere in the world. It has three official languages in which instruction and examinations can be conducted: English, French and Spanish, with a strong possibility of shortly adding Mandarin Chinese.

The International Baccalaureate program has a set of well defined goals and objectives reflected by its mission statement[2]:

“The International Baccalaureate® aims to develop inquiring, knowledgeable and caring young people who help to create a better and more peaceful world through intercultural understanding and respect.
To this end the organization works with schools, governments and international organizations to develop challenging programmes of international education and rigorous assessment.
These programmes encourage students across the world to become active, compassionate and lifelong learners who understand that other people, with their differences, can also be right.”

IB learners profiles strive to be: inquirers, knowledgeable, thinkers, communicators , principled, open-minded, caring, risk-takers, balanced and reflective.

IB Curriculum

The purpose of the IB curriculum is to:

educate young people to act intelligently and responsibly in a complex society; 
ensure knowledge of traditional academic disciplines and of the individual’s own 
heritage, while fostering inquisitiveness and openness to new ideas; and
equip students with a genuine understanding of themselves and others, heightening the capacity for tolerance and engendering respect for different points of view.

The DP curriculum is made up of six subject groups and the DP core, comprising:
theory of knowledge (TOK) – in which students reflects on the nature of knowledge and on how we know what we claim to know
creativity, activity, service (CAS) – in which students complete a project related to those three concepts.
the extended essay – which is an independent, self-directed piece of research, finishing with a 4000 word paper.
The DP program offers six subject groups that students may choose from which are: studies in language and literature; language acquisition; individuals and societies; sciences; mathematics; and the arts.
Students may opt to study an additional sciences, individuals and societies, or languages course, instead of a course in the arts.
Students will take some subjects at higher level (HL) and some at standard level (SL).  HL and SL courses differ in scope but are measured according to the same grade descriptors, with students expected to demonstrate a greater body of knowledge, understanding and skills at higher level.
Each student takes at least three (but not more than four) subjects at higher level, and the remaining at standard level.
Standard level subjects take up 150 teaching hours. Higher level comprises 240 teaching hours.
Through the DP core, students reflect on the nature of knowledge, complete independent research and undertake a project that often involves community service.

IB Assessment Process

DP assessment procedures measure the extent to which students have mastered advanced academic skills, while at the same time encourages an international outlook and intercultural skills, wherever appropriate.
Student results are determined by performance against set standards, not by each student's position in the overall rank order.
The IB uses both external and internal assessment in the DP. Examinations form the basis of the external assessment for most courses. This includes:
essays
structured problems
short-response questions
data-response questions
text-response questions
case-study questions
multiple-choice questions – though these are rarely used. 
As for internal assessment, teacher assessment is also used for most courses. This includes:
oral work in languages
fieldwork in geography
laboratory work in the sciences
investigations in mathematics
artistic performances.
In the DP, students receive grades ranging from 7 to 1, with 7 being highest. Students receive a grade for each DP course attempted.
A student’s final Diploma result score is made up of the combined scores for each subject. The diploma is awarded to students who gain at least 24 points, subject to certain minimum levels of performance including successful completion of the three essential elements of the DP core. 
The DP core is comprised of The theory of knowledge (TOK) and extended essay (EE) components are awarded individual grades and, collectively, can contribute up to 3 additional points towards the overall Diploma score.
Creativity, Action, Service – the remaining element in the DP core – does not contribute to the points total but authenticated participation is a requirement for the award of the diploma.
The IB awards the same number of points for higher level (HL) and standard level (SL) courses, reflecting the IB’s belief in the importance of achievement across a broad range of academic disciplines.
HL and SL courses differ in scope but are assessed against the same grade descriptors, with HL candidates expected to demonstrate the various elements of the grade descriptors across a greater body of knowledge, understanding and skills. 
dA bilingual diploma is awarded to candidates who complete and receive a grade 3 or higher in two languages selected from the DP course studies in language and literature.
Students who gain a grade 3 or higher in studies in language and literature and a grade 3 or higher in an individuals and societies or science subject, completed in a different language, will also receive the bilingual diploma.

IB Academic Goals

The focus on critical thinking is a major distinction versus other advanced academic programs. Because IB prioritizes learning to think rather than memorization of content, students are expected to develop as inquirers, thinkers, communicators, and risk-takers. Through IB study, students become knowledgeable, principled, open-minded, caring, balanced, and reflective. As a direct result of IB’s rigorous curriculum and assessment methods, DP holders are well prepared for university work and have developed positive attitudes to learning because students ask challenging questions, learn to critically reflect, develop research skills, and learn how to learn.

IB aims to provide a balanced program, which stimulates thought and creativity and enhances the international perspective of students. Students who satisfy the demands of the program demonstrate a strong commitment to learning, both in terms of mastery of content and the development of skills. 

Research suggests that there are many benefits to choosing the IB’s DP (students aged 16 – 19). The program aims to develop students who have excellent breadth and depth of knowledge – students who flourish physically, intellectually, emotionally and ethically. A recent research study has shown that DP students are better able than their peers to cope with demanding workloads, manage their time and meet the expectations placed on them.[][]

4	Conclusion

The HSC is a program that is designed primary to serve Australia’s domestic purposes. The HSC curriculum is rich in context and offers practical options for students who choose not to pursue higher education. It is also less rigorous in broad development allowing students to focus on career specialization by choosing subjects that they liked most and thus contributing to achieving better academic results. However, the question of how well the HSC prepare students for university studies is still debatable.

The IB DP program in an international program and is therefore internationally recognized. The IB curriculum requires students to take at least one subject from each of the six subject groups. Such mandatory subject requirements ensure students are equip with “all-round” abilities at the end of the DP program. In addition, the program’s focus on critical thinking and universities style assessments ensure students are well prepared for further tertiary studies.

